---
title: On NFTs
aliases: NFTs
author: fidel
date: 2022-09-01
summary: 
bitly: 
categories: [ Nonficton, Articles]
tags: nfts
math: true
mermaid: true

---

<!---Thursday 01 September 2022

image:
  path: https://s2.loli.net/2022/08/02/pmyNATRbLuGhkjD.jpg
  width: 400 
  height: 600 
  alt:

--->


Where NFTs are concerned, I’ve become rather cautious. Let me explain.

I feel that people who are either not artists or who have allowed their artistic talent to be ruined by a disordered love of money have corrupted NFTs.

Real art takes disciplined endeavour to create.  So if NFTs mean working away  at the digital easel out of respect for the creative power of God within, then I’m all for it. If it means clicking a few times on an app to spew out hundreds of random unique avatars- then no. I’m not on board.

The plus side is that these corrupters of art who make tons of avatars at a click of a button are forcing us to re-evaluate what art really is. The 20th centuries postmodernist responses to that question have proven to be false, as far as I can see.

And one way to prove my statement, that art (as a verb, as a process) cannot be computer aided avatar-creation, lies in this question: 
“Is it possible for anyone to go into “the zone” or “flow” of inspiration where they commune with the Creator and lose track of time because they touch eternity - can this happen whilst they are busy clicking away at a “randomise” button on an app?

In my opinion, random avatar NFTs have taken our theories about the subjectivity of art to their final consequences, which have proven to be absurd. This is proof that the theory of art being entirely subjective is incorrect. 





