---
title: The Stickfigther - Prelude
aliases:
author: fidel
date: 2022-09-07
summary: Comic book
bitly: 
categories: [ Fiction,Comics ]
tags: comics stickfigther action adventure
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: https://s2.loli.net/2022/08/02/pmyNATRbLuGhkjD.jpg
  width: 400 
  height: 600 
  alt:
---

<!---Wednesday 07 September 2022--->



**[[PAGE 1]{#Page_1}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

South African township. That means a mish-mash of closely packed small
houses, interspersed with shacks and dilapidated hovels. Winding narrow
roads snake their way around the maze of buildings. The sun hangs low in
the horizon, casting long shadows. Evening.

[PANEL 2 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

Few people on the streets. A chubby woman heavily laden with shopping
bags. Two young men in beanies and skinny jeans, heading past her. An
old drunk sits on the road side, staring into space and clutching onto a
huge bottle of Black Label beer. .

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

The drunk looks up.

CAPTION

Cr-r-r-r

[PANEL 4 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

A horse drawn jalopy of a carriage rumbling past. The carriage is a more
like a box. The wheels are old car tires. The driver is wrapped in a
blanket and wears a Sotho hat.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

Close Up on the driver. A young man with a clean, pleasant face.
Fifteen, maybe sixteen years old. His brow is wrinkled, deep in thought.
(This is Coleman, our hero.)

**[[PAGE 2]{#Page_2}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

The jalopy in front of an old shack. Coleman is leaping off it.

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

Coleman speaks to his horse.

COLEMAN

This is our last delivery Musa. Then we\'re home.

[PANEL 3 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

An elderly grandma covered up in blankets and a beanie stands in front
of the open shack door. This is MA NOXY.

MA NOXY

Thank you so much my son.

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

COLEMAN

Sorry I\'m late Ma Noxy. I got delayed at Bab Hlongwe\'s.

MA NOXY

I\'ve got a bit of money today Coleman. I want to\...

COLEMAN

No ma. Keep it. I promised you you\'d never have to pay.

MA NOXY

Thank you my son. God bless you.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

Coleman is in the driver\'s seat of the carriage.

COLEMAN

Let\'s go home Musa.

[PANEL 6]{.underline}

Coleman and Musa making their way up an abandoned road.

**[[PAGE 3]{#Page_3}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

Coleman and Musa going past an open grassland (a.k.a veld). It\'s devoid
of humanity. In the background, we see houses nestled a long way away, a
haze of brown lazy smoke hanging above them.

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

Musa pulls up, snorts and whinnies.

CAPTION

Wh-h-h-h!

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

Coleman is concerned.

COLEMAN

What is it Musa? You smell something?

[PANEL 4 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

A Man in jeans, sneakers, t-shirt and a cap runs onto the road.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

His one arm cradles his other bleeding hand.

**[[PAGE 4]{#Page_4}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1]{.underline}

Coleman and Musa. Surprised.

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

The man takes one wearied, panicked look at them. He\'s wide eyes are in
shock.

MAN

(hoarse whisper)

Urg-g-gh..

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

The man stumbles off, hobbling up the road.

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

Close up on the man\'s hand. Missing a couple of fingers.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

Wide on Coleman and Musa (same as first panel on the page). A high
pitched scream rips through the panel.

CAPTION

Aaaarrrgh!

**[[PAGE 5]{#Page_5}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1 - \*\*\* (the schoolgirl only)]{.underline}

An open area of grassland. A gang of SEVEN THUGS in jeans, dirty
t-shirts and torn sneakers encircle a girl in a sweater, short skirt and
knee high socks - her school uniform.

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

On the girl: she\'s even more attractive when she\'s scared. High
cheekbones, full lips, tears on the edge of her bright eyes. Her name is
ZANELE.

ZANELE

Please.

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

A dirty, dreadlocked thug licks his lips lasciviously.

DREADLOCKS

Me first.

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

A rotten-toothed, grinning THUG pushes Zanele into Dreadlocks.

ROTTEN TOOTH

Scream again and we\'ll cut off those little tits [before]{.underline}
we kill you.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

Two thugs pinning Zanele to the ground as Dreadlocks unzips his
pants.(Wide)

**[[PAGE 6]{#Page_6}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1]{.underline}

Close on Dreadlock\'s ear a something flat WHIZZES past it.

CAPTION

Shy-aa-kk!

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

A dreadlock on the ground next to Zanele\'s feet.

[PANEL 3 - \*\*\*]{.underline}

A panga (machete) buried in the ground where it landed, blade first.

CAPTION

Zing-g-g.

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

DREADLOCKS

What the \...?

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

A silhoutted figure steps up behind the circle of thugs.

COLEMAN

Yo yo yo! I can smell you guys from here.

[PANEL 6 ]{.underline}

Close on Coleman, spinning twin fighting clubs with knobbed tips in both
hands.

COLEMAN

No wonder you\'re not getting any at home.

[PANEL 7 - \*\*\* ( I will provide it)]{.underline}

Close on the twin fighting clubs. The tips have metal spikes on them.

**[[PAGE 7]{#Page_7}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1]{.underline}

On the thugs: whipping out blades and machetes. One of them is already
lunging at Coleman\'s neck.

[PANEL 2 -- \*\*\* (I will provide it)]{.underline}

Coleman flings aside his blanket cape to reveal a suit of partial
armour.

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

Coleman smashing his way through the thugs. Leaping acrobatically ,
clubs whirling.

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

His club sends teeth and blood flying of a smashed face.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

Another blow gouges out an eye.

[PANEL 6]{.underline}

A thug coughs blood as Coleman\'s stick rams into his stomach.

**[[PAGE 8]{#Page_8}]{.underline}**

PANEL 1

On Zanele. Staring at the scene in wide eyed astonishment.

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

The scene: Coleman stands alone, surrounded by a mass of writhing,
moaning injured criminality.

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

Coleman standing over to Zanele.

COLEMAN

What were you doing out here alone?

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

Close on Zanele\'s shocked face.

ZANELE

Look ou\...

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

DREADLOCK fires a pistol at Coleman.

CAPTION

BAANG!

[PANEL 6]{.underline}

Coleman hurled through the air by the impact of the hit.

[PANEL 7]{.underline}

Dreadlock standing over Coleman, a wry smile of his face.

[PANEL 8]{.underline}

Coleman\'s face. Still conscious. Still breathing. Looking up at
Dreadlock\'s levelled pistol.

**[[PAGE 9]{#Page_9}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1]{.underline}

Dreadlock cocks the pistol.

DREADLOCKS

I\'ll chop of your balls and shove them down your throat. I\'ll watch
you\...

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

Close on Coleman\'s hand. A blade juts out.

CAPTION

Zw-i-i-i-ck!

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

On Dreadlock\'s face as the blade wipes past it.

DREADLOCKS

Urgh\...

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

Dreadlocks on his knees screaming.

CAPTION

A-a-a-r-g.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

Close on his face. His lips are gone.

[PANEL 6]{.underline}

Coleman getting up.

COLEMAN

You talk too much.

[PANEL 7]{.underline}

The thugs scamper into the veld.

[PANEL 8]{.underline}

The blade on Coleman\'s hand recedes, as petals of blood drip off it.

CAPTION

Zw-i-i-i-ck.

**[[PAGE 10]{#Page_10}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1]{.underline}

Coleman walking away.

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

Zanele calls him back.

ZANELE

Wait!

(beat)

Let me come with you.

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

Coleman faces her.

COLEMAN

Go home.

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

Zanele closes in on Coleman, but keeps a safe distance. Not entirely
trusting him.

ZANELE

I know who you are Stickfighter. I know what they did to you and to your
family.

(beat)

I know what they did to your hand.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

Coleman. Surprised.

[PANEL 6]{.underline}

Zanele pleads.

ZANELE

My name is Zanele. Let me come with you.

(beat)

Coleman.

[PANEL 7]{.underline}

Coleman is angry.

COLEMAN

You put yourself in danger intentionally? What if I didn\'t come.

**[[PAGE 11]{#Page_11}]{.underline}**

[PANEL 1]{.underline}

Same panel that we saw three panels ago, with the two-shot.

Zanele looking away, ashamed.

COLEMAN

How do you know my name?

[PANEL 2]{.underline}

Zanele, pleading..

ZANELE

I saw it\...in the lake\...I too have the calling. Just like you. Let me
come with you.

[PANEL 3]{.underline}

Coleman, even angrier now.

COLEMAN

Go home and forget you ever saw me.

[PANEL 4]{.underline}

Wide. Same two-shot from before. Coleman whirling around and striding
away.

[PANEL 5]{.underline}

On Zanele. Watching him going. Hurt. Yet determined.

[PANEL 6]{.underline}

Wide. Three panels. Coleman receding into the gloom and swallowed up by
the dusk.
